doc/download-spikeforest-data.md, before:

# Downloading SpikeForest datasets

You can load the SpikeForest recordings and ground-truth sortings directly into [SpikeInterface](https://github.com/spikeinterface) Python objects.

**Step 1a**: [Install kachery-p2p and run a kachery-p2p daemon](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/kachery-p2p/blob/main/doc/setup_and_installation.md)

**Step 1b**: [Join the spikeforest-download channel](./join-spikeforest-download-channel.md)

**Step 2**: Install the most recent version of labbox-ephys

```
pip install --upgrade labbox-ephys
```

**Step 3**: Select a recording for download from the [spikeforest_recordings](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings) repo. See the "recordings" folder. For example, if you browsed to the [paired_kampff](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings/tree/master/recordings/PAIRED_KAMPFF/paired_kampff) study, you should see a collection of recordings and sortings in .json files including the recording [2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings/blob/master/recordings/PAIRED_KAMPFF/paired_kampff/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json) with its ground truth sorting [2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings/blob/master/recordings/PAIRED_KAMPFF/paired_kampff/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json). Inspecting the `self_reference` fields in these gives you URI's (universal pointers) to these:

* Recording: `sha1://a205f87cef8b7f86df7a09cddbc79a1fbe5df60f/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json`
* Ground truth sorting: `sha1://c656add63d85a17840980084a1ff1cdc662a2cd5/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json`

**Step 4**: Load the sorting and recording into SpikeInterface objects via labbox-ephys

```python
import labbox_ephys as le

recording_name = 'paired_kampff/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0'
recording_uri = 'sha1://a205f87cef8b7f86df7a09cddbc79a1fbe5df60f/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json'
sorting_uri = 'sha1://c656add63d85a17840980084a1ff1cdc662a2cd5/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json'

recording = le.LabboxEphysRecordingExtractor(recording_uri, download=False)
sorting_true = le.LabboxEphysSortingExtractor(sorting_uri)

channel_ids = recording.get_channel_ids()
samplerate = recording.get_sampling_frequency()
num_timepoints = recording.get_num_frames()
print(f'{recording_name}')
print(f'Recording has {len(channel_ids)} channels and {num_timepoints} timepoints (samplerate: {samplerate})')

unit_ids = sorting_true.get_unit_ids()
spike_train = sorting_true.get_unit_spike_train(unit_id=unit_ids[0])
print(f'Unit {unit_ids[0]} has {len(spike_train)} events')
```

The `download=False` means that that we don't want to download the entire recording upfront (just lazy load it on demand). If you set this to True, the entire recording will be downloaded to your kachery storage directory.

You can now interact with these Python objects using tools from [SpikeInterface](https://github.com/spikeinterface) and [labbox-ephys](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/labbox-ephys).

Commit message:

update data loading URIs and docs

doc/download-spikeforest-data.md, after:

# Downloading SpikeForest datasets

You can load the SpikeForest recordings and ground-truth sortings directly into [SpikeInterface](https://github.com/spikeinterface) Python objects.

## Step 1: Kachery setup

**Step 1a**: [Install kachery-p2p and run a kachery-p2p daemon](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/kachery-p2p/blob/main/doc/setup_and_installation.md)

**Step 1b**: [Join the spikeforest-download channel](./join-spikeforest-download-channel.md)

## Step 2: Install labbox-ephys

Install the most recent version of labbox-ephys:

```
pip install --upgrade labbox-ephys
```

## Step 3: Select a recording for download

You can browse the [spikeforest_recordings](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings) repo. See the "recordings" folder. For example, if you browsed to the [paired_kampff](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings/tree/master/recordings/PAIRED_KAMPFF/paired_kampff) study, you should see a collection of recordings and sortings in .json files including the recording [2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings/blob/master/recordings/PAIRED_KAMPFF/paired_kampff/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json) with its ground truth sorting [2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings/blob/master/recordings/PAIRED_KAMPFF/paired_kampff/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json). Inspecting the `self_reference` fields in these gives you URI's (universal pointers) to these:

* Recording: `sha1://a205f87cef8b7f86df7a09cddbc79a1fbe5df60f/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json`
* Ground truth sorting: `sha1://c656add63d85a17840980084a1ff1cdc662a2cd5/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json`

## Step 4: Load recording/sorting into Python

Load the sorting and recording into SpikeInterface objects via labbox-ephys:

```python
import labbox_ephys as le

recording_name = 'paired_kampff/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0'
recording_uri = 'sha1://a205f87cef8b7f86df7a09cddbc79a1fbe5df60f/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.json'
sorting_uri = 'sha1://c656add63d85a17840980084a1ff1cdc662a2cd5/2014_11_25_Pair_3_0.firings_true.json'

recording = le.LabboxEphysRecordingExtractor(recording_uri, download=False)
sorting_true = le.LabboxEphysSortingExtractor(sorting_uri)

channel_ids = recording.get_channel_ids()
samplerate = recording.get_sampling_frequency()
num_timepoints = recording.get_num_frames()
print(f'{recording_name}')
print(f'Recording has {len(channel_ids)} channels and {num_timepoints} timepoints (samplerate: {samplerate})')

unit_ids = sorting_true.get_unit_ids()
spike_train = sorting_true.get_unit_spike_train(unit_id=unit_ids[0])
print(f'Unit {unit_ids[0]} has {len(spike_train)} events')
```

The `download=False` means that that we don't want to download the entire recording upfront (just lazy load it on demand). If you set this to True, the entire recording will be downloaded to your kachery storage directory.

You can now interact with these Python objects using tools from [SpikeInterface](https://github.com/spikeinterface) and [labbox-ephys](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/labbox-ephys).

## Loading entire study sets

You can also access a JSON index to all of the SpikeForest studies and recordings via:

```python
import kachery_p2p as kp

x = kp.load_json('sha1://f728d5bf1118a8c6e2dfee7c99efb0256246d1d3/studysets.json')

# Now inspect the content of x
# For example, the first recording:
# r = x['StudySets'][0]['studies'][0]['recordings'][0]
# print(r)
```

The most recent version of the above URI can be found [here](https://github.com/flatironinstitute/spikeforest_recordings/blob/master/recordings/studysets).
